1. A method for state-of-health monitoring of a powertrain component in an electric vehicle system, comprising: determining an equivalent circuit model of the powertrain component; modeling heat losses in the powertrain component considering both transient and steadystate conditions; modeling heat flow through the powertrain component based on one or more material properties of the powertrain component; determining a temperature of a particular structure within the powertrain component; and determining, using a Rainflow algorithm, a number of temperature cycles until failure of the particular structure based on the temperature of the particular structure.

2. The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the number of temperature cycles until failure includes determining an applied stress in the particular structure.

3. The method of Claim 2, wherein determining the stresses in the particular structure includes using an Arrhenius model of a material of the particular structure.

4. The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the number of temperature cycles until failure includes using a Coffin-Manson relationship.

35

5. The method of Claim 1, further comprising: calculating a degradation of a material in the powertrain component.

6. The method of Claim 1, wherein calculating the degradation of the material in the powertrain component includes applying Miner's rule for modeling cumulative damage.

7. The method of Claim 1, further comprising: determining a remaining useful lifetime of the powertrain component.

8. The method of Claim 1, wherein the particular element is a junction in a power electronic device.

9. The method of Claim 8, wherein powertrain component includes an inverter power module, and the power electronic device includes one of a switch and a diode.

10. A system for state-of-health monitoring of a powertrain component in an electric vehicle system, comprising: a processor; and a memory including instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: determine an equivalent circuit model of the powertrain component; determine an estimate of heat losses in the powertrain component considering both transient and steady-state conditions;

36 determine an estimate of heat flow through the powertrain component based on one or more material properties of the powertrain component; determine a temperature of a particular structure within the powertrain component; and determine, using a Rainflow algorithm, a number of temperature cycles until failure of the particular structure based on the temperature of the particular structure.

11. The system of Claim 10, wherein determining the number of temperature cycles until failure includes determining an applied stress in the particular structure.

12. The system of Claim 11, wherein determining the stresses in the particular structure includes using an Arrhenius model of a material of the particular structure.

13. The system of Claim 10, wherein determining the number of temperature cycles until failure includes using a Coffin-Manson relationship.

14. The system of Claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: calculate a degradation of a material in the powertrain component.

15. The system of Claim 10, wherein calculating the degradation of the material in the powertrain component includes applying Miner's rule for modeling cumulative damage.